BERLIN, March 6 (Xinhua) -- Despite their own heavy losses, European countries -- especially Germany -- have unanimously kept silent over the blasts that destroyed the Nord Stream 1 and 2 pipelines last September and subsequent investigations. Since veteran investigative journalist Seymour Hersh exposed the U.S. Navy's involvement in the explosions on the U.S. portal Substack last month, more and more experts have questioned Europe's atypical, collective silence. According to Hersh, a U.S. Pulitzer Prize winner, the U.S. Navy divers last June planted the remotely triggered explosives that destroyed three of the four Nord Stream pipelines months later. Europe's largest economy, Germany, has been particularly affected by the energy crisis due to the end of gas supplies from Russia. However, the country's government, like its allies, has refrained from talking about the explosions in public. A German government spokesperson refused to comment on Hersh's article at Xinhua's request at a press conference last month. At the same time, German media have widely moved to discredit Hersh's article. Once proven that the pipelines were indeed blasted by the United States, it would overturn the European public's recognition of the current narratives by the West, which claimed that European infrastructure was "under the threat of Russia," said Li Xing, professor of development and international relations at Denmark's Aalborg University. That the U.S. Navy was involved in the Nord Stream pipelines explosions last year, as discovered by Hersh, was an "economic war" against its submissive allies in Europe, Jan Oberg, a Swedish expert, told Xinhua in an interview. "One must wonder when the Europeans will wake up and finally understand that they no longer share interests with the U.S.," stressed Oberg, director of the Transnational Foundation for Peace and Future Research. Croatian security expert Mirko Vukobratovic told Xinhua that the alleged involvement of the U.S. Navy in the September 2022 Nord Stream explosions was "not impossible." The United States has the most to gain from the destruction of the pipelines, Josep Puigsech, a Spanish political expert at the Autonomous University of Barcelona, told Xinhua. "I increasingly believe that the incident that led to the breaking of the gas pipeline was the result of an action by the United States," Puigsech said.  ■