SARAJEVO, Jan. 25 (Xinhua) -- The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) confirmed on Wednesday the appointment of new members of the Council of Ministers of BiH -- the state-level government. Twenty-three members of parliament's lower house approved the list of ministers, submitted by Borjana Kristo, chair of the Council of Ministers, while 19 members voted against. Kristo, member of the Croatian Democratic Union (HDZ), is the first woman to lead the state government of BiH. She was appointed by the Presidency of BiH and confirmed by the House of Representatives in December 2022. Kristo said on Wednesday that the Council of Ministers will "work hand in hand with the Parliament members toward stability, security and the European future of BiH. The trust we have been given obliged us to open dialogue, build trust and work to create better conditions for all people living in BiH. Our way and our commitment is the European way." Fellow HDZ members Davor Bunoza and Dubravka Bosnjak became minister of justice and minister of civil affairs, respectively. Elmedin Konakovic, president of the People and Justice (NiP) party, became the country's new minister of foreign affairs. Zoran Tegeltija, member of the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats (SNSD) who led the state government during the previous term, became minister of finance and treasury. Stasa Kosarac, also a member of the SNSD, the leading political party in the Bosnian entity Republika Srpska, remains minister of foreign trade and economic relations for another term. Edin Forto, president of the Sarajevo-based Our Party and prime minister of Sarajevo Canton since 2018, became minister of communications and transport. The country's new minister of security is Nenad Nesic, president of the Democratic People's Alliance (DNS). Nesic served as a member of the House of Representatives from 2018 to 2022. Zukan Helez, member of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), became minister of defense, and Sevlid Hurtic, president of the Greens party, became minister of human rights and refugees.  ■