PHILADELPHIA, the United States, Jan. 12 (Xinhua) -- The Philadelphia Orchestra will enhance its ties with China through more in-person events to contribute to the development of U.S.-China cultural exchanges, the orchestra's chief said. "China is fundamentally important in terms of our international touring profile," Matias Tarnopolsky, president and CEO of the Philadelphia Orchestra, told Xinhua in a recent interview. The orchestra, which is based in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, has made "an incredible number of visits" to China, which has strengthened its connection with the people, audiences, and education and civic institutions in China, he said. Despite the COVID challenges over the past three years, the orchestra was able to keep the relationship "not only going but developing" through a variety of digital collaborations, according to Tarnopolsky. "Now we can go back and do it in person, and that's very important for us and for our partners in China as well," he said, adding that "as soon as the situation with COVID settles down, we'll be able to start planning future tours." Founded in 1900, the Philadelphia Orchestra is renowned for a long and distinguished history of touring the world. The orchestra's lasting ties with China mark a significant chapter in its century-old history. In 1973, the orchestra pioneered cultural exchange with China at the invitation by then U.S. President Richard Nixon, becoming the first American orchestra to make a tour to the People's Republic of China. Over the past 50 years, the orchestra has returned to China 12 times, more than any other U.S. orchestra. "Cultural exchange is fundamentally important as a path to understanding between peoples," said Tarnopolsky. Last week, the Philadelphia Orchestra teamed up with iSING! Suzhou International Young Artist Festival, presenting concerts that featured ancient Chinese poetry both in Philadelphia and New York to celebrate the upcoming Chinese Lunar New Year. Entitled "Echoes of Ancient Tang Poems," the show was also held to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the orchestra's first visit to China. "Music connects us all, be it across geographic boundaries, languages, cultures and centuries," said Tarnopolsky, adding that in 2023, the orchestra will have a series of events to celebrate the milestone. Valuing the orchestra's half-century bond with China, Tarnopolsky said he hopes to see the relationship continue to grow and flourish.  ■