LAS VEGAS, Jan. 9 (Xinhua) -- The 2023 Consumer Electronics Show (CES), the world's premier tech show, concluded in the U.S. city of Las Vegas on Sunday, featuring latest innovations in consumer technology. The four-day show drew more than 3,200 exhibitors from over 170 countries and regions. Hundreds of Chinese companies participated in the show, including well-known brands like TCL, Lenovo and Hisense as well as many startups. CES 2023 highlighted innovations in sustainability, transportation and mobility, digital health, artificial intelligence, virtual reality and augmented reality, smart homes, robotics and more. "CES is the world's most exciting technology event, from startups in Eureka Park to global brands on the main stages. We are thrilled to spotlight thousands of innovative companies at this year's show," said Gary Shapiro, president and CEO of the Consumer Technology Association (CTA), organizer of the CES. As in past years, automotive technology took center stage at CES 2023. The automotive sector was bigger than ever, making it one of the largest auto shows in the world with nearly 300 exhibitors in West Hall of Las Vegas Convention Center. Global launches and keynotes from BMW and Stellantis led into exhibits featuring the latest in self-driving technology, electric vehicles and personal mobility devices for land, air and sea. CES 2023 was held amid another surge of COVID-19 infections in the United States. The show brought more digital health innovations and brands to the global stage, showing advancements in digital therapeutics, mental wellness, women's health technology and telemedicine. Clean energy and energy storage solutions became a focus at the show. Chinese clean energy companies attracted lots of attention and interest among visitors, exhibitors and reporters with their innovative solar generators, appliances and clean energy solutions. Jackery, a pioneer in portable power industry, which is based in Shenzhen of China's Guangdong Province, unveiled innovative portable solar generators at CES 2023. Its Solar Generator 3000 Pro, producing a maximum of 8.5 kilowatt-hours of power per day, can provide backup power for five days of outdoor adventures or home emergencies. Jackery also bagged four CES 2023 Innovation Awards for its innovative portable renewable energy solutions. "The pandemic has changed people's lifestyles. A lot of people prefer outdoor activities. Portable solar power generators could offer power for RVs, electric appliances such as microwaves, refrigerators, and BBQ ovens while they are outdoors," Jack Sun, founder and chairman of Jackery, told Xinhua. Global warming calls for urgent efforts to promote renewable energy, which has facilitated innovations in the green energy industry. "Tech advances are helping to solve the world's greatest challenges, and CES 2023 will set the agenda for the year ahead," Shapiro said.  ■