MADRID, Feb. 22 (Xinhua) -- More than 20 Chinese renewable energy companies participate in GENERA 2023, the energy and environment international trade hosted by Madrid, the capital of Spain, between Feb. 21 and Feb. 23. "We are very glad to join GENERA 2023 and explore the Spanish and European photovoltaic (PV) market in light of our worldwide sales strategy," Zhao Neng, general manager of the Sales Center of the China-based Yangzhou Jinghua New Energy Company, told Xinhua in an interview on Wednesday. "The exhibition is perfect. Many customers come to our booth, where we have already signed an agreement with a local partner in Valencia and have sealed a number of orders," he said. The company is one of China's major solar panel manufacturers. "We believe that the new energy market will be booming in Spain. We will do our best to achieve a 2-3 percent market share with our excellent solar modules," he said. On an exhibition area of 18,000 square meters, some 385 companies from Spain, China, Germany, Italy, Türkiye and Portugal display their products. Organized jointly by Spain's Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge and the Madrid Fair Institution IFEMA, the fair aims to highlight Spain's position as a leading player in the development of renewable energy. Spain currently ranks eighth among the world's 40-odd main renewable energy markets in the Renewable Energy Country Attractiveness Index (RECAI), which highlights opportunities for international investors in the field. Luis Crespo from Soto Solar, a Madrid-based solar panel manufacturing company, spoke highly of China's renewable energy products. "The quality of Chinese equipment is very good," he commented. GENERA is held in the context of rising energy costs and the quest for sustainable and reliable energy sources. The event also includes a series of technical conferences, which bring together experts to debate issues, such as the green transition, energy storage and green hydrogen. The Innovation Gallery showcases the advantages of green energy.  ■