LONDON, Feb. 21 (Xinhua) -- The British private sector returned to growth in February, ending a six-month period of falling output with rising customer demand and improving business confidence, a business survey showed on Tuesday. At 53.0 in February, up sharply from 48.5 in January, the S&P Global / CIPS Flash UK PMI Composite Output Index registered above the 50.0 no-change value for the first time since July 2022. The survey also signaled the fastest rate of private sector output expansion for eight months. The manufacturing and service sectors both returned to growth, the survey showed. Production volumes in the manufacturing sector have increased for the first time since June 2022, as goods producers mostly linked the rise in output to recovering client demand, while some also noted that improving supply conditions had helped boost factory production. Much better than anticipated PMI data for February indicate encouraging resilience of the economy in the face of headwinds, which include rising interest rates, the ongoing cost-of-living crisis, and labor shortages and strikes, said Chris Williamson, chief business economist at S&P Global Market Intelligence. "While many companies continue to report tough operating conditions, especially in the manufacturing sector, the broader business mood has been buoyed by signs of inflation peaking, supply chains improving and recession risks easing," Williamson said. While the latest data showed the UK economy may be in better shape than expected, concerns remained. It would be premature to conclude from the jump in the composite PMI that the economy has avoided a recession, Gabriella Dickens, an economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics consultancy, commented. The composite PMI does not include the retail sector, which is at the sharp end of the pull back in households' real expenditure, nor the construction sector, which will fare worse than most in response to the jump in borrowing costs, Dickens noted. It also does not cover the public sector, in which output will likely fall in the first quarter (Q1) as a result of an increase in strike action, she added. "We still think that gross domestic product (GDP) will drop in both Q1 and Q2, as households' real disposable incomes continue to decline in response to further increases in consumer energy prices, and as households refinancing mortgages continue to cut back," Dickens said.  ■