 This aerial photo taken on Feb. 12, 2023 shows a scene after the earthquake in Antakya, Hatay Province, Türkiye. The death toll from the twin earthquakes that rocked Türkiye and Syria on Feb. 6 has climbed to 29,605 and 1,414 respectively as of Sunday evening. (Photo by Mustafa Kaya/Xinhua) ANKARA/DAMASCUS, Feb. 13 (Xinhua) -- The following are the latest facts about quake-hit Türkiye and Syria.  -- COMBINED CASUALTIES The death toll from Monday's earthquakes in Türkiye has climbed to 29,605, the country's disaster agency was quoted by the Anadolu Agency as saying, bringing the total fatalities with neighboring Syria to over 33,000, with tens of thousands injured.  -- RESCUE EFFORTS The first batch of emergency aid, including tents and blankets, delivered by the Chinese government for earthquake relief has arrived in Türkiye on Saturday. More emergency supplies, including tents, electrocardiographs, ultrasonic diagnostic equipment and medical transfer vehicles will also be shipped in batches from China. Syria is also receiving supplies from the Red Cross Society of China and the local Chinese community. The aid from the local Chinese community included infant formulas, winter clothes, and medical supplies, while the first batch of emergency medical supplies from the Red Cross Society of China arrived on Thursday. On Sunday, Algeria and Libya also sent planes full of relief items to the quake-hit areas. Pakistan on Sunday sent another special relief consignment as part of relief assistance for the earthquake-hit areas of Türkiye. Qatar has sent the first part of the 10,000 container houses for earthquake victims in Türkiye, the Anadolu Agency reported. Meanwhile, foreign heads of state and ministers started to pay visits to Türkiye and Syria to show solidarity. Greek Foreign Minister Nikos Dendias visited Türkiye on Sunday to show support. The Qatari emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani, the first foreign head of state visiting quake-hit Türkiye, met with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan in Istanbul on Sunday. Also on Sunday, Foreign Minister of the United Arab Emirates Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan visited Syria, pledging continued support for the country to overcome the repercussions of the earthquakes, Syrian state news agency SANA reported.  -- PROBLEMS & RESPONSE The lack of hygienic facilities has started to endanger the survivors in the quake-hit Türkiye. "The issue of hygiene is becoming more and more urgent," wrote Ihsan Cakir, deputy general secretary of Hatay Municipality on Friday. The Hatay province was one of the worst hit areas by the earthquakes. "Underwater sources might have been polluted, with the sewage system in ruins," said Celalettin Kocaturk, a doctor in Istanbul, adding that now the tap water is not safe for drinking or ablutions. He also warned of an increased risk of an epidemic. ■  This aerial photo taken on Feb. 12, 2023 shows a scene after the earthquake in Antakya, Hatay Province, Türkiye. The death toll from the twin earthquakes that rocked Türkiye and Syria on Feb. 6 has climbed to 29,605 and 1,414 respectively as of Sunday evening. (Photo by Mustafa Kaya/Xinhua)  This aerial photo taken on Feb. 12, 2023 shows a scene after the earthquake in Antakya, Hatay Province, Türkiye. The death toll from the twin earthquakes that rocked Türkiye and Syria on Feb. 6 has climbed to 29,605 and 1,414 respectively as of Sunday evening. (Photo by Mustafa Kaya/Xinhua)  This aerial photo taken on Feb. 12, 2023 shows a scene after the earthquake in Antakya, Hatay Province, Türkiye. The death toll from the twin earthquakes that rocked Türkiye and Syria on Feb. 6 has climbed to 29,605 and 1,414 respectively as of Sunday evening. (Photo by Mustafa Kaya/Xinhua)  A man stands amid earthquake debris in Antakya in the southern province of Hatay, Türkiye, Feb. 12, 2023. The death toll from Monday's earthquakes in Türkiye has climbed to 29,605, the country's disaster agency was quoted by the Anadolu Agency as saying. (Xinhua/Shadati)  Rescuers carry out rescue operation on earthquake debris in Antakya in the southern province of Hatay, Türkiye, Feb. 12, 2023. The death toll from Monday's earthquakes in Türkiye has climbed to 29,605, the country's disaster agency was quoted by the Anadolu Agency as saying. (Xinhua/Shadati)  Excavators are seen in rescue operation on earthquake debris in Antakya in the southern province of Hatay, Türkiye, Feb. 12, 2023. The death toll from Monday's earthquakes in Türkiye has climbed to 29,605, the country's disaster agency was quoted by the Anadolu Agency as saying. (Xinhua/Shadati)  Members of the China Search and Rescue Team carry out rescue operation on earthquake debris in Antakya in the southern province of Hatay, Türkiye, Feb. 12, 2023. The death toll from Monday's earthquakes in Türkiye has climbed to 29,605, the country's disaster agency was quoted by the Anadolu Agency as saying. (Xinhua/Shadati)  Members of the China Search and Rescue Team carry out rescue operation on earthquake debris in Antakya in the southern province of Hatay, Türkiye, Feb. 12, 2023. The death toll from Monday's earthquakes in Türkiye has climbed to 29,605, the country's disaster agency was quoted by the Anadolu Agency as saying. (Xinhua/Shadati)  This photo shows earthquake debris in Antakya in the southern province of Hatay, Türkiye, Feb. 12, 2023. The death toll from Monday's earthquakes in Türkiye has climbed to 29,605, the country's disaster agency was quoted by the Anadolu Agency as saying. (Xinhua/Shadati)  Members of the China Search and Rescue Team carry out rescue operation on earthquake debris in Antakya in the southern province of Hatay, Türkiye, Feb. 12, 2023. The death toll from Monday's earthquakes in Türkiye has climbed to 29,605, the country's disaster agency was quoted by the Anadolu Agency as saying. (Xinhua/Shadati)