LOS ANGELES, Feb. 26 (Xinhua) -- The multiverse adventure "Everything Everywhere All at Once" grabbed the top ensemble award at the Screen Actors Guild (SAG) Awards on Sunday, cementing its status as the favorite for the prestigious best picture prize at next month's Oscars. The film, a hilarious sci-fi action adventure, not only took home the top prize, Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture, but also swept nearly every acting category. The film's Chinese-Malaysian actress Michelle Yeoh made history with her win for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role, beating frontrunner Cate Blanchett. "This is not just for me," Yeoh said in her acceptance speech, noting that the prize is "for every little girl that looks like me." Yeoh's co-star Ke Huy Quan became the first Asian winner of the best supporting actor category, while there was a shock win for his co-star Jamie Lee Curtis in the supporting actress category. "Everything Everywhere All at Once," a juggernaut in this Hollywood awards season, led nominees for the upcoming 95th Academy Awards, or the Oscars, with 11 nominations, according to the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. In addition, Brendan Fraser won Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Leading Role for the psychological drama film "The Whale." On the TV side, the award for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series went to the HBO series "The White Lotus." Jennifer Coolidge took home the award for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Drama Series for "The White Lotus," while Jason Bateman earned accolades for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Drama Series for Netflix's "Ozark." "Abbott Elementary" is the winner of the award for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Comedy Series. Jeremy Allen White won Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Comedy Series for his role in "The Bear." Jean Smart captured the award for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Comedy Series for "Hacks." Sam Elliott and Jessica Chastain won Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Television Movie or Limited Series for "1883" and Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Television Movie or Limited Series for "George & Tammy," respectively. The SAG Awards are accolades given by the Screen Actors Guild -- American Federation of Television and Radio Artists to recognize outstanding performances of the year in film and prime time television.  ■