UNITED NATIONS, Feb. 21 (Xinhua) -- A Chinese envoy on Tuesday called on the international community to step up support for the Central African Republic (CAR) to help the country achieve enduring peace and security. Lately, the CAR has registered major results in advancing the peace process, strengthening state governance, and promoting development and reconstruction. The international community should step up support to help the country achieve enduring peace and security at a critical period of transition from peacekeeping to peacebuilding, said Dai Bing, China's deputy permanent representative to the United Nations. He stressed the importance of fully implementing the peace agreement. The dissolution of four armed groups late last year marks an important step in the peace process. China calls on other armed groups to join without delay the political dialogue and disarmament process, Dai told the UN Security Council. Local elections slated for this year will be momentous to the consolidation of peace. The international community should provide support to ensure the smooth conduct of elections, respect the CAR's sovereignty and ownership, and support it in following a development path that is suitable for its own conditions, he said. There is a need to curb the threat of armed groups, said Dai. China supports the CAR government's efforts to safeguard national security in accordance with the law, and calls on relevant parties to cease violence. The international community should focus on assisting the CAR's efforts to implement national defense policy, build a security sector that is professional, efficient, and strong, and address new security threats. The Security Council's sanction measures, which impact the country's security capacity, should be lifted altogether, he said. It is the common responsibility of the United Nations and the international community to support the CAR's development and reconstruction, he said. The country now faces a grave humanitarian situation, and the international community should increase humanitarian assistance with a focus on poverty reduction, food security, and infrastructure building, he said, adding that main donors should resume unconditional aid as soon as possible. China stands ready to continue its efforts with the international community to provide more support for peace, stability, and economic and social development in the CAR, he said.  ■